Geomorpho90m - Global high-resolution geomorphometry layers: empirical evaluation and accuracy assessment. First order derivative layers.
==========================================================================================================================================

   Geomorphometry is the science of quantitative analysis of the Earth's surface. The primary inputs for such terrain analyses are remotely sensed Digital Elevation Models (DEMs), which provide an opportunity to derive a wide range of environmental variables to better understand patterns and processes in geography, geology, climatology, hydrology or biodiversity science. While DEMs provide the elevation itself, a wide array of geomorphometry metrics can be extracted to yield information regarding topographical variation and land surface parameters, to improve our understanding of the geographical, geomorphological and environmental properties of a given study area. By the elevation it is possible to describe the topographical complexity, which can shape the macro and micro climate of a given area. The topographical variation contributes significantly to the environmental complexity of a region, and also defines the biotic and abiotic features at a sub-regional level. 

  Land surface parameters are quantitative measures of various morphometric properties of a surface. The most common parameters, slope or aspect, can be used to further derive more complex features or curvature profiles of a terrain at any given location. Such measures are pivotal to reflect hydrological parameters shaping flow and erosion processes within the landscape, and to delineate catchment and stream features. Moreover, mapping and assessing landform variability such as concavity and convexity is essential to gaining a better picture of the dynamics of land erosion and landscape denudation in mountainous environments.